# Introduction 

Description of what is WaterALLOC and motivation for its development. 

Mutual complement of HydroBID and MODSIM 

# WaterALLOC Approach 

Brief explanation of HydroBID and MODSIM 

Provide a comparison table of the features, applications (from poster) 

Enhanced river basin management tool – make sure to have generic, accessible language and cover the big picture purpose of the tools 

# Key Features 

* Read HydroBID input files to create the MODSIM network 

* Allows a full map of the stream network or a simplified network 

* Allows launch and run HydroBID in the WaterALLOC interface 

* Allows to perform watershed analysis (similar to the AHD navigation tool) 

* Imports the output from HydroBID into the MODSIM network 

* Prepares the MODSIM network with HydroBID settings for a ready to run model 

* Allows visualizing the HydroBID output in the map objects 

* Allows access to the MODSIM objects and outputs in the WaterALLOC interface 

* Allows creating new features to complete the water allocation analysis (Demands and Reservoirs) 

* Provides statistical metrics and graphs to calibrate the model 

* Provides a hydro-economic module to conduct cost-benefit analysis 

* Provides a scenario management structure to address “what if” questions and develop and compare scenarios with different assumptions 

# WaterALLOC Development 

RTI has provided primary support for WaterALLOC development.  

Provide brief description of projects where WaterALLOC has been applied. 

# WaterALLOC Workspace

This is the location of the files for a WaterALLOC project.  

# WaterALLOC Interface 

Provide description of: 

## Main menu 

## Toolbar options 

## Map window 

## Legend 

## Configuration settings 

## Coordinate scaling 

## Log messages 

## Scenario analysis tree  

## Data entry dialogs  

## Results windows 

# Background Information 

## WaterALLOC Software 

Explanation of the installation files, files created, folder structure, and license agreement. 

To get started, we suggest getting familiarized with some of the following concepts (provide brief description and include links to HydroBID and MODSIM documentation): 

## HydroBID 

### AHD 

### COMID 

### Land use and soil type default databases 

### Climate data required 

### CDIT 

### Local inflows 

### Calibration parameters 

### Settings file 

## MODSIM 

Elements in MODSIM network (types of nodes, links) 

Priorities 

# Core Modules 

## HydroBID Module 

### Set HydroBID folder 

### Set inflow points 

WaterALLOC allows to set inflow points through the GIS interface. Explain and provide an example of what runoff is represented at ach node. 

### HydroBID simulation 

Describe the watershed analysis feature 

Inflow points file generated by WaterALLOC 

Measure flow file 

Run options 

Difference between “Launch GUI” and “Execute” 

Review of output folder for HydroBID simulations 

### Create MODSIM network 

Explain the difference between creating a MODSIM network with “Only inflow points” vs “All catchments” and when is best to use each of these options. 

Explain when to use the “Append to existing network” and what would be overwritten if re-generated. 

### Import HydroBID output 

Explain what results are available to be imported (this is tied to the active scenario). 

Explain what type of results are imported when running HydroBID with inflow points vs. all catchments. 

Explain the “Import groundwater seepage” feature. 

Describe what weather variables are imported to the WaterALLOC database and how the user can import different set of weather variables for each scenario and for all or selected COMIDs. 

Describe what output variables can be imported for spatial display 

Describe the default preferences set in MODSIM when HydroBID outputs are imported. 

## MODSIM Module 

Set MODSIM elements 

Demands through WaterALLOC data entry dialogs 

Domestic 

Explain basic data requirements 

Explain theory and methods to calculate domestic demands using data input through WaterALLOC dialogs 

With hydrologic states 

Agriculture  

Explain basic data requirements 

Explain difference between “user defined” and “crop based”. Describe the default values distributed with WaterALLOC and how user can change or import more 

Use of precipitation for net irrigation requirement 

Explain theory and methods to calculate agriculture demands using data input through WaterALLOC dialogs 

With hydrologic states 

Other options to add demands  

Provide a brief explanation and link to MODSIM documentation 

Explain the feature “Set demands from waterALLOC demands table” and when to use it 

Explain the feature “Re-calculate all demands from Sqlite DB” and when to use it 

Reservoirs 

Explain basic data requirements 

Other water supply (Nonstorage nodes not included in the AHD) 

Delete MODSIM elements 

Set priorities 

Provide a brief explanation of how priorities work in MODSIM. Provide an example and links to MODSIM documentation.   

Run MODSIM 

Explain how to adjust network settings 

Explain the difference between Standard run and Hydroeconomics run 

Hydro-economics Module 

Provide intro to this module and general capabilities. Use Brasilia report to extract information.  

Agricultural sector 

Provide explanation of the theory and equations used to calculate economic benefits for agricultural sector 

Explain user input requirements through the WaterALLOC dialogs 

Municipal sector 

Provide explanation of the theory and equations used to calculate economic benefits for municipal sector 

Explain user input requirements through the WaterALLOC dialogs 

Hydropower sector 

Provide explanation of the theory and equations used to calculate economic benefits for hydropower sector 

Cost-benefit analysis 

Explain how the CBA is performed in WaterALLOC 

Explain all elements and components of the economic summary dashboard 

Operation Optimization Module 

Provide intro to this module and general capabilities. Place holder for now. 

Scenarios Management 

Allows set of multiple scenarios for “what if” simulations. 

Describe the new scenario options 

Independent with no data 

Independent with snapshot of the seed 

Dependent of the seed 

Results 

Explain the different options to explore results (graphs and tables). Provide link to MODSIM documentation. 

Explain the option to compare measured vs. simulated flows and statistical metrics to calibrate the models. 

References 

Help & FAQ 

Contact US 

 